.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt harp 1 "libharp manual"

.Sh NAME
.Nm harp
.Nd HTTP reverse proxy with IP-dependent configurations

.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl hVb
.Op Fl -help
.Op Fl -version
.Op Fl -background
.Op Fl c | Fl -config-path Ar config-path
.Op Fl n | Fl -thread-number Ar thread-number
.Op Fl u | Fl -user Ar user
.Op Fl g | Fl -group Ar group
.Op Fl -chroot Ar chroot-directory
.Op Fl -syslog-facility Ar facility

.Sh DESCRIPTION

.Nm
is an HTTP reverse proxy dispatching requests according to different
configurations depending on the client's IP address.

The manual contains more information about how to use and configure harp.
You can access it by typing the following command provided the documentation
is installed on your computer.

.Ic info harp

.Sh OPTIONS

In order to see the default values for certain options, the program can be run
with the option
.Fl h
or
.Fl -help .

.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl h , Fl -help
Display the help message.
.It Fl V , Fl -version
Display the version number and some additional information.
.It Fl b , Fl -background
Run the program in the background. It creates a new process group.
.It Fl c , Fl -config-path
Specify a different configuration file.
.It Fl n , Fl -thread-number
Number of worker threads to spawn, equivalent to the number of concurrent
requests.
.It Fl u , Fl -user
User to run the program as.
.It Fl g , Fl -group
Group to run the program with.
.It Fl -chroot
Directory to which the root directory is set if specified.
.It Fl -syslog-facility
Syslog facility where the messages are sent. See
.Xr syslog 3 .
.El

.Sh BUGS
Please report bugs using the issue tracker at
.Lk http://hub.darcs.net/thoferon/harp/issues .
